---
layout: post
title: "Glossary"
date: 2020-01-20 21:59:36
tags: core
---

Connection of terms and codewords used. 
Some may have an extended or alternative meaning to traditional terminology.

* `4n9` / `5n9`

    General form being `<#nodes>`n`<#endpoints>`
     
    Dataset of micro-fractals consisting of max 4 `QTF` operators and 9 endpoints. 

* endpoints

    The leaf nodes of expressions trees.
    They are placeholder representing input variables or (more likely) the roots of other trees.
    The number of endpoints are the physical number of endpoints a tree can have. 
    The number of endpoints equals `"<number-of-nodes>*2+1"`.
   
* footprint
 
    Bit vector containing the results of the micro-fractal evaluations for all possible endpoint values.

* imprint
 
    Extension of `footprint` including all possible endpoint permutations.
   
* kstart / istart / ostart / istart / nstart
    
    Tree indices indicating the start of variable groups with specific higher-level semantics.
    Variables are special kind of endpoints and best compared with tree leaves.
    
    NOTE: within the generator programs, endpoints generally refer to variables whereas within
          solver programs, endpoints generally refer to other trees.  
    
    The values are constrained to `kstart` <= `istart` <= `ostart` <= `ustart` <= `nstart` 
    
    The range `"kstart <= x <= nstart"` is considered input which is excluded when evaluated.
    Node evaluation start from `nstart`.
    Evaluation results are generally stored in the output vector `"roots[]"`
    
    Historically `K` stands for Key, `I` for input, `O` for output, `U` for user-defined and `N` for nodes.

* ordered structure

    A structure of which the endpoints are positioned in such a way that their ordering follows that
    of the path taken to walk the structure. For example `"cab>&"` 
   
* placeholder

    Part of the `"placeholder/skin"` notation.
    Placeholders are used as index to find the actual endpoints as described in the skin.
    Placeholder `'a'` should be substituted by the first endpoints found in `"skin"`.
    Placeholders may or may not be unique. 
     
* `QTF` / `QnTF` / `QTnF`

    `QTF` representing `Q ? T : F` where `T` and/or `F` can be inverted.
    
    `QnTF` representing `Q ? ~T : F` where T is always inverted and F is never inverted
    
    `QTnF` representing `Q ? T : ~F` where T is never inverted and T is always inverted
 
* skin

    Part of the `"placeholder/skin"` notation.
    The skin contains what the placeholders should be replaced with. 
    
* slots

    Slots is a historic name. It is best comparable with "bus-width" in computer science. 
    It is used to determine the size and number of transforms, skins, structure endpoins, evaluator test vectors.
   
* transform

    A connection remapping. It contains instructions on how to attach endpoints to structures to change 
    the result/effect of the structure. There are two types of transforms, a forward and reverse. The reverse 
    transform is to undo the effect of the forward.
    
* transparant skin

    The default skin "abcdefghi" which does not change the look or effect of a structure.
    